############
Contributing
############

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Manim! However you have decided to contribute
or interact with the community, please always be civil and respect other
members of the community. If you haven't read our :doc:`code of conduct<conduct>`,
do so here. Manim is Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) for mathematical
animations. As such, **we welcome everyone** who is interested in
mathematics, pedagogy, computer animations, open-source,
software development, and beyond. Manim accepts many kinds of contributions,
some are detailed below:

*  Code maintenance and development
*  DevOps
*  Documentation
*  Developing educational content & narrative documentation
*  Plugins to extend Manim functionality
*  Testing (graphical, unit & video)
*  Website design and development

.. NOTE::
   Please ensure that you are reading the latest version of this guide by ensuring that "latest" is selected in the version switcher.



Contributing can be confusing, so here's a few guides:

#. By default, the documentation for methods of a class is autogenerated in alphabetical
   order.  However, for classes with many methods, this is sup-optimal.  When
   documenting classes with many methods, please consider doing the following.  Modify
   the ``manim/docs/source/custom_method_order.py`` file by adding a new key to the
   ``custom_method_order`` dictionary.  The key should be the name of the class you are
   documenting.  The value is a second dictionary.  This second dictionary has items of
   the form (section_title: method_list).  This will force the autogenerated
   documentation for the methods to be broken down into sections.  An example can be
   seen here: :ref:`reference/manim.mobject.mobject.Mobject`.



**Thank you for contributing!**
===============================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   contributing/development
   contributing/documentation
   contributing/testing

