*******
v0.10.0
*******

:Date: August 31, 2021

Contributors
============

A total of 38 people contributed to this
release. People with a '+' by their names authored a patch for the first
time.

* Animfysyk +
* Benjamin Hackl
* Christian Clauss
* Daniel Adelodun +
* Darigov Research
* Darylgolden
* Eric Biedert +
* Harivinay
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Jephian Lin +
* Joy Bhalla +
* Laith Bahodi
* Lalourche +
* Max Stoumen
* Naveen
* Oliver
* Partha Das +
* Raj Dandekar +
* Rohan Sharma +
* Ryan McCauley
* Václav Hlaváč +
* asjadaugust +
* ccn
* icedcoffeeee
* sparshg
* vinnniii15 +
* vladislav doster +
* xia0long +


The patches included in this release have been reviewed by
the following contributors.

* Aathish Sivasubrahmanian
* Benjamin Hackl
* Darylgolden
* Devin Neal
* Eric Biedert
* Harivinay
* Hugues Devimeux
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Jason Villanueva
* Jephian Lin
* Joy Bhalla
* Laith Bahodi
* Naveen
* Oliver
* Raghav Goel
* Raj Dandekar
* Ryan McCauley
* ccn
* icedcoffeeee
* ralphieraccoon
* sparshg

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 54 pull requests were merged for this release.

Breaking changes
----------------

* `#1843 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1843>`__: Drop redundant OpenGL files and add metaclass support for `Surface`
   `OpenGL<x>` classes from `opengl_geometry.py`, `opengl_text_mobject.py`, `opengl_tex_mobject.py`, `opengl_svg_path.py`, `opengl_svg_mobject.py` and most of `opengl_three_dimensions.py` have been removed. 
   `ParametricSurface` has been renamed to `Surface`

Deprecated classes and functions
--------------------------------

* `#1941 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1941>`__: Added examples, tests and improved documentation for :mod:`~.coordinate_systems`


* `#1860 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1860>`__: Removed :class:`~.GraphScene`, :class:`~.NumberLineOld` and parameters for :class:`~.ChangingDecimal`


New features
------------

* `#1828 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1828>`__: Add configuration option ``zero_pad`` for zero padding PNGs.


Enhancements
------------

* `#1881 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1881>`__: Added methods :meth:`~.get_lines` and :meth:`~.get_value` to :class:`~.Angle`


* `#1952 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1952>`__: Implement option to save last frame for OpenGL
   Implemented save_last_frame option for opengl

* `#1694 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1694>`__: Add `font_size` parameter for `Tex` and `Text` mobjects. 


* `#1922 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1922>`__: Clean up when OpenGL renderer raises an error using IPython


* `#1923 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1923>`__: Fixed init help text formatting so that it's not truncated
   Fixed init help text formatting

* `#1868 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1868>`__: Add OpenGL support to IPython magic
   The OpenGL renderer can now be used in jupyter notebooks when using the `%%manim` magic command. However, it is required to set the renderer via a configuration file, as the manim import must happen after setting the renderer.

* `#1841 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1841>`__: Reduced default resolution of :class:`~.Dot3D`


* `#1847 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1847>`__: Allow :class:`~.Cross` to be created without requiring a mobject.


Fixed bugs
----------

* `#1871 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1871>`__: Fixed broken :meth:`.VectorScene.vector_to_coords`


* `#1973 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1973>`__: Fixed indexing of :meth:`.Table.get_entries` to respect row length
   Change 1: The original get_entries and get_entries_without_label used self.row_dim to calculate the flattened index. row_dim, however, refers to the number of rows and since python unrolls row major, it should be the width or column dim.
   Change 2: L607 was also using len(self.mob_table), while get_entries_without_label uses self.row. This was changed to self.col to be consistent and to also fix the same issue as Change 1.

* `#1950 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1950>`__: Fixed passing custom arrow shapes to :class:`~.CurvedArrow`


* `#1967 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1967>`__: Fix :attr:`.Axes.coordinate_labels` referring to the entire axis, not just its labels.


* `#1951 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1951>`__: Fixed the positioning of line graph that was under the graph 
   Removed a part of code that caused the `line_graph` to be positioned behind the `Axes` / `NumberPlane`. Fixes the issue #1464.

* `#1938 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1938>`__: Fixed :class:`~.Rotate` for angles that are multiples of :math:`2\pi`
   Fixed Rotate animation when trying to rotate by multiples of 2π
   Closes #1935

* `#1924 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1924>`__: Made arrow tips rotate up/down
   Arrow tips will rotate according to the difference in the z-coordinates

* `#1931 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1931>`__: Fixed ``row_heights`` in :meth:`.Mobject.arrange_in_grid`


* `#1744 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1744>`__: Fix :class:`~.NumberPlane` bug with positive/negative `x_range`/`y_range` values.


* `#1887 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1887>`__: Fix ``custom_config`` not working in ``frames_comparison``
   Fix arguments passed into custom_config not working in graphical unit tests.

Documentation-related changes
-----------------------------

* `#1979 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1979>`__: Correct Japanese phrases in documentation
   Adjusts Japanese test phrases in `manim/mobject/svg/text_mobject.py`.

* `#1976 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1976>`__: Fix labelling of languages in documentation example


* `#1949 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1949>`__: Reworked installation instructions


* `#1963 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1963>`__: Added sitemap to ``robots.txt``


* `#1939 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1939>`__: Fixed formatting of parameter description of :class:`~.NumberPlane`


* `#1918 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1918>`__: Fixed a typo in the text tutorial


* `#1915 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1915>`__: Fix wording problem in colab installation docs
   Fixes wording problem in colab installation docs.

* `#1906 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1906>`__: Consistency and language improvements for README
   - Add `BibTex` language hint to citation code fence
   - Add missing `sh` language hint to code fences
   - Correct grammar
   - Make code fence spacing consistent
   - Make header spacing consistent
   - Remove trailing whitespace

* `#1880 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1880>`__: Update an example to use .animate instead of ApplyMethod


* `#1877 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1877>`__: Remove duplicated imports in some documentation examples


* `#1869 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1869>`__: Fixed duplicated Parameters section in  :meth:`.Mobject.arrange_in_grid`


Changes concerning the testing system
-------------------------------------

* `#1894 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1894>`__: Fix test_opengl::test_Circle 
   Fix test_opengl::test_Circle xfailing due to an error.

Changes to our development infrastructure
-----------------------------------------

* `#1987 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1987>`__: Added support for using OpenGL in subprocess in Windows pipeline


* `#1964 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1964>`__: Add `CITATION.cff` and a method to automatically update this citation with new releases


* `#1856 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1856>`__: Modified Dockerfile to support multi-platform builds via ``docker buildx``


* `#1955 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1955>`__: Partially support OpenGL rendering with Docker


* `#1896 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1896>`__: Made RTD apt install FFMPEG instead of installing a Python binding


* `#1864 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1864>`__: Shortened and simplified PR template


Code quality improvements and similar refactors
-----------------------------------------------

* `#1960 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1960>`__: Ignore fewer flake8 errors
   Remove flake8 tests that are passing and shorten some long lines to get to --max-line-length=211.

   Are docstrings used to build docs?  If so, does wrapping long lines mess up the docs?

* `#1947 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1947>`__: Set flake8 not to ignore undefined names in Python code


* `#1948 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1948>`__: flake8: Set max-line-length instead of ignoring long lines


* `#1956 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1956>`__:  Upgrade to modern Python syntax
   This pull request was created with the command [`pyupgrade --py36-plus **/*.py`](https://github.com/asottile/pyupgrade#readme)

   Python f-strings simplify the code and [should speed up execution](https://www.scivision.dev/python-f-string-speed).

Unclassified changes
--------------------

* `#1758 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1758>`__: Fix opengl scene selection
   Fixed issue where scene selection was ignored when using the opengl renderer

* `#1899 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1899>`__: Allow to switch the renderer to opengl at runtime


* `#1898 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1898>`__: Replaced `self.data["attr"]` and `self.uniforms["attr"]` with `self.attr`.


* `#1943 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1943>`__: Add buff parameter to :class:`~.BraceLabel`.
   Quickfix for #1769

* `#1893 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1893>`__: Fix single-scene issue with gui
   Fixed issue where the gui crashes when not specifying the scene

* `#1934 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1934>`__: Improve code quality by implementing suggestions from LGTM


* `#1861 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1861>`__: Updated dearpygui version
   Updated dearpygui to 0.8.x

* `#1879 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1879>`__: Fix version stated in poetry


* `#1866 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1866>`__: Use parameter `corner_radius` also in `SurroundingRectangle`


* `#1853 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1853>`__: Update sphinx to 4.1.2


