*******
v0.12.0
*******

:Date: November 01, 2021

Contributors
============

A total of 38 people contributed to this
release. People with a '+' by their names authored a patch for the first
time.

* Anima. +
* Arcstur +
* Benjamin Hackl
* Christopher Besch
* Darylgolden
* David Yang +
* Dhananjay Goratela +
* Ethan Rooke +
* Eugene Chung +
* GameDungeon
* Gustav-Rixon +
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Josiah Winslow +
* Laith Bahodi
* Martmists +
* Michael Hill +
* Naveen M K
* Nick +
* NotWearingPants +
* Peeter Joot +
* Ryan McCauley
* Viicos +
* icedcoffeeee
* kieran-pringle +
* Виктор Виктор +


The patches included in this release have been reviewed by
the following contributors.

* Alex Lembcke
* Anima.
* Benjamin Hackl
* Christopher Besch
* Darylgolden
* David Yang
* Dhananjay Goratela
* Ethan Rooke
* Eugene Chung
* Gustav-Rixon
* Hugues Devimeux
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Laith Bahodi
* Mysaa
* Naveen M K
* Nick
* Oliver
* Ryan McCauley
* Viicos
* icedcoffeeee
* kieran-pringle

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 44 pull requests were merged for this release.

Highlights
----------

* `#2152 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2152>`__: Introduced API for scene sections via :meth:`.Scene.next_section`


Deprecated classes and functions
--------------------------------

* `#2065 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2065>`__: Deprecate :class:`~.FullScreenFadeRectangle` and :class:`~.PictureInPictureFrame`.


New features
------------

* `#2128 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2128>`__: Added keyword arguments ``match_center``, ``match_width`` etc. to :meth:`.Mobject.become`


* `#2162 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2162>`__: Implemented :meth:`.MovingCamera.auto_zoom` for automatically zooming onto specified mobjects
   Added auto_zoom to moving_camera.

   Added a function to moving_camera called auto_zoom.

   auto_zoom takes an array of Mobjects and calculates a new camera frame.

   Fixed is_in_frame.

   is_in_frame hade incorrect values it took the entire frame width/height from the center. It should be half of that.

* `#2236 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2236>`__: Added ``skip_animations`` argument to :meth:``.Scene.next_section``


* `#1812 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1812>`__: Implement logarithmic scaling for :class:`~.NumberLine`/:class:`~.Axes`


* `#2196 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2196>`__: Implemented :meth:`.Line3D.parallel_to` and :meth:`.Line3D.perpendicular_to`


Enhancements
------------

* `#2157 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2157>`__: Added :meth:`.PolarPlane.plot_polar_graph`


* `#2243 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2243>`__: Fixed wasteful recursion in :meth:`.Mobject.get_merged_array`


* `#2205 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2205>`__: Improved last frame output handling for the OpenGL renderer


* `#2172 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2172>`__: Added flag to disable rendering mobjects


* `#2182 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2182>`__: Changed the default width of videos in Jupyter notebooks to ``60%``


Fixed bugs
----------

* `#2142 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2142>`__: Fixed opengl family duplicates issue and add tests


* `#2168 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2168>`__: Fixed  order in function `cartesian_to_spherical`
   As mentioned in #2095, the returned array in [`cartesian_to_spherical`](../blob/8a3d1d8ff3aea50e88625e4514fb39230592c81c/manim/utils/space_ops.py#L772) is not in the correct order. [`spherical_to_cartesian`](../blob/8a3d1d8ff3aea50e88625e4514fb39230592c81c/manim/utils/space_ops.py#L775) is unpacking them correctly as `r, theta, phi` but `cartesian_to_spherical` returns the array in that order: `r, phi, theta`.

   [`position_tip`](../blob/8a3d1d8ff3aea50e88625e4514fb39230592c81c/manim/mobject/geometry.py#L171) was also edited to be in accordance with the correct order.

* `#2160 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2160>`__: Projection Shader compatibility with StreamLines


* `#2140 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2140>`__: Fixed opengl `set_color` with gradients


* `#2211 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2211>`__: Fixed animations not respecting the specified rate function


* `#2192 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2192>`__: Fixed :func:`.svg_path.string_to_numbers` sometimes returning strings


* `#2185 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2185>`__: Fixed type mismatch for height & width parameters of :class:`~.Text`


* `#2176 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2176>`__: Modify ``set_default`` example to prevent leaking across the docs.


Documentation-related changes
-----------------------------

* `#2228 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2228>`__: Added a new boolean operation example to the gallery


* `#2239 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2239>`__: Removed erroneous raw string from text tutorial


* `#2184 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2184>`__: Moved comments in :class:`~.VMobject` to documentation


* `#2215 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2215>`__: Fixed typo on `get_z_axis_label` docstring
   Just a typo fix on the `get_z_axis_label` method of the `ThreeDAxes` object.

* `#2212 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2212>`__: Fixed Documentation for Sections


* `#2194 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2194>`__: Type hinting images.py


* `#2201 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2201>`__: Minor spell-check in docstrings
   Fix aniamtion spelling error in some python docstring comments.

* `#2171 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2171>`__: Type hinting ipython_magic.py


* `#2130 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2130>`__:  Transferred troubleshooting installation related snippets from Discord to the documentation


Changes concerning the testing system
-------------------------------------

* `#2197 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2197>`__: Added tests for resolution flag
   Added test cases to make sure the resolution flag does what its supposed
   to. It queues up a handful of common 16:9 and a couple 4:3 resolutions
   and tries to render all of them with all acceptable separators. Once
   they render it checks to make sure that the rendered resolution matches
   the requested resolution. To manage this last step the
   `_get_config_from_video` method in `tests/utils/video_tester.py` was
   made public to avoid repeating functionality.

* `#2146 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2146>`__: Increased opengl testing


Changes to our development infrastructure
-----------------------------------------

* `#2191 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2191>`__: Removed ``add-trailing-comma`` pre-commit hook


Code quality improvements and similar refactors
-----------------------------------------------

* `#2136 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2136>`__: Added type hints to all colors


* `#2220 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2220>`__: Cleanup: ensure ``Scene.renderer.time`` returns something that makes sense


* `#2222 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2222>`__: Updated Classifiers in ``pyproject.toml``


* `#2213 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2213>`__: Removed redundant ``partial_movie_files`` parameter in :meth:`.SceneFileWriter.combine_to_movie`


* `#2200 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2200>`__: Addressed some maintenance TODOs
   - Changed `Exception` to `ValueError` now that #307 is merged.
   - Fixed `MappingCamera.points_to_pixel_coords` by adding the `mobject` argument of the parent
   - Round up width in `SplitScreenCamera`
   - Add docstring to `Camera.capture_mobject` (it just links to `Camera.capture_mobjects` as duplicating the docstring seemed unnecessary)

* `#2164 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2164>`__: Made regex more readable


New releases
------------

* `#2114 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2114>`__: Prepared new release, ``v0.11.0``


Unclassified changes
--------------------

* `#2187 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2187>`__: Renamed `get_graph` (and the like) to `plot`


* `#2217 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2217>`__: Removed Extraneous Dots in :class:`.Section` Documentation


* `#2161 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2161>`__: Fix `IndexOutOfBoundsError` in TeX logging
   * Fixed bug where an `IndexOutOfBoundsError` could be thrown while trying to display a TeX compilation failure.

* `#2148 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2148>`__: Fixed :class:`~.Arrow` tip disorientation with :meth:`.Line.put_start_and_end_on`


* `#2165 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2165>`__: Added Crowdin configuration and changed source files to ``.pot`` format
