*******
v0.13.0
*******

:Date: December 03, 2021

Contributors
============

A total of 26 people contributed to this
release. People with a '+' by their names authored a patch for the first
time.

* Alex Lembcke
* Benjamin Hackl
* Christopher Besch
* Darylgolden
* Filip +
* Laith Bahodi
* Lucas Ricci +
* Marcin Serwin +
* Mysaa
* Naveen M K
* Ricky +
* Viicos
* ask09ok +
* citrusmunch +
* icedcoffeeee
* mostlyaman +
* vmiezys +
* zhujisheng +


The patches included in this release have been reviewed by
the following contributors.

* Alex Lembcke
* Benjamin Hackl
* Christopher Besch
* Darylgolden
* Filip
* Hugues Devimeux
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Laith Bahodi
* Lucas Ricci
* Naveen M K
* Oliver
* Ryan McCauley
* Viicos
* ask09ok
* icedcoffeeee
* mostlyaman

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 36 pull requests were merged for this release.

Highlights
----------

* `#2313 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2313>`__: Finalized translation process and documentation


Deprecated classes and functions
--------------------------------

* `#2331 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2331>`__: Remove deprecations up to `v0.12.0`
   - Removed `focal_distance` parameters from :class:`~.ThreeDCamera`
   - Removed `min_distance_to_new_point` parameter from :class:`~.TracedPath`
   - Removed `positive_space_ratio` and `dash_spacing` parameters from :class:`~.DashedVMobject`
   - Removed `<method>_in_place` methods from `mobject.py`
   - Removed `ReconfigurableScene`
   - Removed `SampleSpaceScene`
   - Removed `distance` parameter from :class:`~.ThreeDScene`

Enhancements
------------

* `#2347 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2347>`__: Moved ``manim_directive.py`` to ``manim.utils.docbuild``


* `#2343 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2343>`__: Replaced current tree layout algorithm with SageMath's for improved layout of large trees.


* `#2351 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2351>`__: Add missing `**kwargs` parameter to meth:`Table.add_highlighted_cell`.


* `#2344 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2344>`__: Resized SVG logos, fit content to canvas


* `#2300 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2300>`__: Add contact email for PyPi


* `#2272 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2272>`__: Added test for :class:`~.Broadcast`
   - This PR add a test for the class Broadcast

Fixed bugs
----------

* `#2276 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2276>`__: Fixed :class:`~.ThreeDAxes` axis shift bug.
   Fixed axes shift problem in `ThreeDAxes` and added test to ensure problem does not resurface again.

* `#2325 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2325>`__: `quality` argument improvements
   * Updated the `quality` option values and help string to be automatically generated from `constants` (there was a mismatch between these before)
   * Not passing `quality` argument will now use the `pixel_height`, `pixel_width` and `frame_rate` from config instead of overwriting them with `DEFAULT_QUANTITY` settings
   * `quality` now can be set inside `manim.cfg` files
   * Removed trailing zeros from frame rates in video directories names

* `#2328 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2328>`__: Provide alpha multiplied RGBA values to cairo
   `Format.ARGB32` in pycairo uses pre-multiplied alpha as per [documentation](https://pycairo.readthedocs.io/en/latest/reference/enums.html#cairo.Format.ARGB32). Manim incorrectly passed non-multiplied alpha, which was fixed.

* `#2292 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2292>`__: Fixed positioning of :class:`~.Flash`
   Fixes #2257. See the modified file as it is pretty straightforward.

   EDIT: Oops, a commit from #2280 has been pushed with this one. Any idea how to fix this?

Documentation-related changes
-----------------------------

* `#2216 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2216>`__: Edited and added new sections to the quickstart tutorial


* `#2279 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2279>`__: Added documentation for discontinuous functions


* `#2319 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2319>`__: Swapped `dotL` and `dotR` in :meth:`Mobject.interpolate` example
   The name of the variables `dotL` and `dotR` are swapped in the example in the method `Mobject.interpolate()`

* `#2230 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2230>`__: Fixed mistakes in building_blocks
   Checked `building_blocks.rst`. Also pushing changes for other files, if I find any mistakes.

* `#2310 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2310>`__: Clarified that Manim does not support Python 3.10 yet in the documentation
   This PR simply add a warning in the installation page saying Manim does not support Python 3.10 yet, and you should use a version that is <= 3.9
   - This PR also closes issue #2308

* `#2294 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2294>`__: Made `index.html` more concise and rearranged order of tutorials


Changes concerning the testing system
-------------------------------------

* `#2346 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2346>`__: Made `frames_comparsion` testing utility a proper module of the library


* `#2318 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2318>`__: Add missing tests for AnimationGroup 'remover' field #1846
   - Adding tests for this issue - ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1722
   - PR for this issue - ManimCommunity/manim/issues/1846

Code quality improvements and similar refactors
-----------------------------------------------

* `#2327 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2327>`__: Correct type hint for `labels` parameter of :class:`~.Graph`


* `#2305 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2305>`__: Corrected type hint ``discontinuities`` argument for :class:`~.ParametricFunction`


New releases
------------

* `#2247 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2247>`__: Prepared new release ``v0.12.0``


Unclassified changes
--------------------

* `#2350 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2350>`__: Mention installation of manim sideview extension


* `#2335 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2335>`__: remove bug iwhich show PointCloud's point smaller in zoomed camera


* `#2340 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2340>`__: Add documentation for growing animations
   - Added documentation to the growing animations
   - Animation `SpinInFromNothing` now uses new path for the `mobject` points. Changed the argument name from `path_arc` to angle to match `Rotate` animation
   - All growing animations now receive `point_color` as positional argument for standardization's sake
   - Fixed warning reported by sphinx

* `#2348 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2348>`__: Updated translation source files


* `#2342 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2342>`__: Remove :meth:`~.CoordinateSystem.get_graph` usage from :class:`~.Axes` example.


* `#2329 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2329>`__: Remove unintended line break in README


* `#2312 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2312>`__: Rename instances of `set_submobjects`


* `#2301 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2301>`__: creation of a test for add_fixed_in_frame_mobjects


* `#2262 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2262>`__: Fixed wrong cell coordinates with `:meth:~.Table.get_cell` after scaling.


* `#2280 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2280>`__: Fixed :class:`~.DecimalNumber` color when number of displayed digits changes
   When using `set_value` on a `DecimalNumber`, the color does not fully update if the number of digits changes. Fixed by calling `init_colors` after each call to `set_value` (there's maybe a better way to fix it).

* `#2274 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2274>`__: Optimized Tests


* `#2287 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2287>`__: Replace link to old notebook


* `#2353 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2353>`__: Prepare new release: ``v0.13.0``
