*******
v0.14.0
*******

:Date: January 06, 2022

Contributors
============

A total of 29 people contributed to this
release. People with a '+' by their names authored a patch for the first
time.

* Benjamin Hackl
* BorisTheBrave +
* Darylgolden
* GameDungeon
* Gergely Bencsik +
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Jihoon +
* Kian Kasad +
* Kiran-Raj-Dev +
* Laith Bahodi
* Leo Xu +
* Marcin Serwin
* Matt Gleich +
* Naveen M K
* Steven nguyen +
* Vectozavr +
* Viicos
* citrusmunch
* netwizard22 +


The patches included in this release have been reviewed by
the following contributors.

* Benjamin Hackl
* BorisTheBrave
* Christopher Besch
* Darylgolden
* GameDungeon
* Gergely Bencsik
* Hugues Devimeux
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Kiran-Raj-Dev
* Laith Bahodi
* Leo Xu
* Lucas Ricci
* Marcin Serwin
* Naveen M K
* Raghav Goel
* Ryan McCauley
* Viicos
* icedcoffeeee

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 29 pull requests were merged for this release.

Deprecated classes and functions
--------------------------------

* `#2390 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2390>`__: Removed deprecations up to `v0.13.0`
   - Removed `get_graph`, `get_implicit_curve`, `get_derivative_graph`, `get_line_graph` and `get_parametric_curve` in favour of their `plot` variants
   - Removed `FullScreenFadeRectangle` and `PictureInPictureFrame`
   - Removed `path_arc` parameter from :class:`~.SpinInFromNothing`
   - Removed `set_submobjects` method from `opengl_mobject.py`

New features
------------

* `#2341 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2341>`__: Update `Text` to use new ManimPango color setting
   * `Text` class now uses color setting introduced in `ManimPango 0.4.0` for color and gradient.

Enhancements
------------

* `#2383 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2383>`__: Made :meth:`.Surface.set_fill_by_value` support gradients along different axes
   This pull request allows users to set a color gradient by value on different axes.

* `#2388 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2388>`__: Added ``about_point`` keyword argument to :class:`~.ApplyMatrix`
   :class:`~ApplyMatrix` now has optional kwarg `about_point` in its `__init__` method.

* `#2395 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2395>`__: Add documentation for paths functions
   * Added documentation and typings for paths functions.
   * Moved `paths_along_circles` to a separate function and made it more general.

* `#2372 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2372>`__: Improved DashedVMobject
   DashedVMobject used to create stretched and uneven dashes on most plotted curves. Now the dash lengths are equalized. An option is reserved to use the old method.
   New feature added to DashedVMobject: dash_offset. This parameter shifts the starting point. It can be used with ValueTracker and what not to create [cool looping animations](https://imgur.com/2cK6eu4).

Fixed bugs
----------

* `#2392 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2392>`__: Fixed ``ZeroDivisionError`` in :mod:`~.mobject.three_dimensions`
   manim/mobject/three_dimensions.py

Documentation-related changes
-----------------------------

* `#2414 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2414>`__: Made improvements to the :doc:`configuration` tutorial
   - Set up automated rendering of the list of CLI flags in our documentation.
   -  Moved the CLI section of the tutorial to the top, since it's by far the most commonly used
   - Slightly rewritten of the CLI section of the tutorial
   - Did some minor copyediting

* `#2423 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2423>`__: Changed recommendatiom to ``mactex-no-gui`` from ``mactex`` for macOS install


* `#2352 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2352>`__: docs: add localized with Crowdin badge


* `#2371 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2371>`__: Add 'dvips' to list of required LaTeX packages on Linux


* `#2403 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2403>`__: Improved docstring of :class:`~.ApplyMethod` and removed propagated ``__init__`` docstring


* `#2391 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2391>`__: Fixed typo in parameter name in documentation of :class:`~.NumberLine`


* `#2368 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2368>`__: Added note in Internationalization


Code quality improvements and similar refactors
-----------------------------------------------

* `#2408 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2408>`__: Removed various return annotations that were stifling type inference


* `#2424 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2424>`__: Remove `strings.py`


* `#1972 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1972>`__: Added MyPy Support


* `#2410 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2410>`__: Fixed Flake8


* `#2401 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2401>`__: Fixed type annotations in :mod:`.mobject.three_dimensions`


* `#2405 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2405>`__: Removed unused OpenGL files
   removes `opengl_tex_mobject.py` and `opengl_text_mobject.py` as mentioned in #2400

* `#2399 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2399>`__: Fixed type annotations in :mod:`~.mobject.table`
   Changes all typing annotations using strings to using the objects.

* `#2385 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2385>`__: Made comments in quickstart tutorial more precise


New releases
------------

* `#2411 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2411>`__: Prepare new release, ``v0.14.0``


Unclassified changes
--------------------

* `#2407 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2407>`__: Clarify the docs for MObject.animate, MObject.set and Variable.


* `#2409 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2409>`__: Trim empty curves from paths when calling align_points.


* `#2397 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2397>`__: Add `label_constructor` parameter for :class:`~NumberLine`.
   - Allows changing the class that will be used to construct :class:`~.Axes` and :class:`~.NumberLine` labels by default.
       - Now it possible to easily use :class:`~.Text` for labels if needed.

* `#2362 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2362>`__: Fixed phi updater in :meth:`.ThreeDScene.begin_3dillusion_camera_rotation`
   The phi updater in the `begin_3dillusion_camera_rotation` method uses a cosinus value, which is not equal to 0 when `dt` = 0, thus creating a small bump at the beginning of the rotation.
   Also added typings, and removed the defaults phi and theta values so that the method can be used without passing the current camera position as arguments.

* `#2377 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2377>`__: Fixed type hint for an argument of :class:`~.MoveAlongPath`
