*******
v0.15.0
*******

:Date: February 15, 2022

Contributors
============

A total of 28 people contributed to this
release. People with a '+' by their names authored a patch for the first
time.

* AnonymoZ +
* Benjamin Hackl
* Darylgolden
* Eshaan Naga Venkata +
* Faruk D. +
* GameDungeon
* Kiran-Raj-Dev
* Laith Bahodi
* Leo Xu
* Lucas Ricci
* Marcin Serwin
* Mysaa
* Naveen M K
* Tommy Chu +
* Viicos
* betafcc +
* dependabot[bot] +
* friedkeenan
* icedcoffeeee
* vmoros +
* 鹤翔万里


The patches included in this release have been reviewed by
the following contributors.

* Benjamin Hackl
* Christopher Besch
* Darylgolden
* Eshaan Naga Venkata
* GameDungeon
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Kiran-Raj-Dev
* Laith Bahodi
* Marcin Kurczewski
* Marcin Serwin
* Naveen M K
* Ryan McCauley
* Tommy Chu
* betafcc
* icedcoffeeee

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 47 pull requests were merged for this release.

Breaking changes
----------------

* `#2387 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2387>`__: Refactored :class:`~.BarChart` and made it inherit from :class:`~.Axes`.
   - :class:`~.BarChart` now inherits from :class:`~.Axes`, allowing it to use `Axes`' methods. Also improves `BarChart`'s configuration and ease of use.
   - Added :meth:`~.BarChart.add_bar_labels` to annotate the value of each bar of a :class:`~.BarChart`.

Deprecated classes and functions
--------------------------------

* `#2457 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2457>`__: Deprecated :class:`.ShowCreationThenFadeOut`


New features
------------

* `#2504 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2504>`__: Added finer control over :meth:`.Scene.wait` being static (i.e., no updaters) or not


Enhancements
------------

* `#2158 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2158>`__: Added OpenGL compatibility to `ThreeDScene.add_fixed_orientation_mobjects` and  `ThreeDScene.add_fixed_in_frame_mobjects`


* `#2535 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2535>`__: Implemented performance enhancement for :meth:`.VMobject.insert_n_curves_to_point_list`
   The older method was slow (ran in O(n^2) time), this is an improvement over it (runs in O(n) time)
   Thanks to `notkev#9458` from the discord server for suggesting this method

* `#2516 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2516>`__: Cache view matrix for :class:`~.OpenGLCamera`


* `#2396 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2396>`__: Fixed animations introducing or removing objects
   * `ShowPassingFlash` now removes objects when the animation is finished
   * Added `introducer` flag to `Animation` analogous to `remover`
   * Updated graph vertex addition handling

Fixed bugs
----------

* `#1547 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1547>`__: Fixed certain unicode characters in users' paths causing issues on Windows


* `#2526 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2526>`__: Fix segfault when using `--enable_gui`


* `#2538 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2538>`__: Fixed flickering OpenGL preview when using ``frozen_frame``


* `#2528 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2528>`__: Fixed custom naming of gifs and added some tests
   Currently specifying a different name for gifs renders a mp4 file.
   Fixed that behaviour, and added some tests for the same

* `#2487 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2487>`__: Fixed :meth:`.ThreeDCamera.remove_fixed_orientation_mobjects`


* `#2530 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2530>`__: Use single source of truth for default text values
   * Default values for text are now taken from dictionary instead of from object attributes

* `#2332 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2332>`__: Change `color`, `stroke_color` and `fill_color` fields to properties
   - `color`, `stroke_color` and `fill_color` are now properties in `VMobject`, making them synchronized with `set_*` and `get_*` methods
   - Surrounding code depending on these attributes was also updated to work properly with them

* `#2494 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2494>`__: Fixed `.gif` related issues


* `#2490 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2490>`__: Fixed two issues of :class:`~.SVGMobject`


* `#2357 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2357>`__: Fixed screeninfo.get_monitors returning empty on osx


* `#2444 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2444>`__: Fix `add_axes` in :class:`~.VectorScene`.


Documentation-related changes
-----------------------------

* `#2465 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2465>`__: Added documentation for `index_labels`.


* `#2431 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2431>`__: Changed example in Surface.set_fill_by_value()
   This changes the example in the set_fill_by_value() method.

* `#2493 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2493>`__: Fixed typo in documentation for parameters of :class:`.Square`


* `#2482 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2482>`__: Updated Python version requirement in installation guide


* `#2438 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2438>`__: Removed unnecessary rotation in example
   - Add missing parentheses in the files `vectorized_mobject.py` and `opengl_vectorized_mobject.py`

* `#2448 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2448>`__: Improvements to the ``.pot`` files cleaning system


* `#2436 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2436>`__: Fixed typo and improved example in building blocks tutorial


Changes to our development infrastructure
-----------------------------------------

* `#2531 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2531>`__: Added a GitHub Action for automatic validation of your citation metadata
   - adds a workflow to validate `CITATION.cff` file

Code quality improvements and similar refactors
-----------------------------------------------

* `#2536 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2536>`__: Upgraded version of setup-ffmpeg CI action


* `#2524 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2524>`__: Reworked `space_ops.py`


* `#2519 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2519>`__: Removed unnecessary/outdated comment
   Removed unnecessary/outdated comments. The comments are a 'to-do list' for either deprecating the class or keeping it.

* `#2503 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2503>`__: Removed unused imports


* `#2484 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2484>`__: CI: update tinytex download url


* `#2429 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2429>`__: Upgraded typehints


* `#2376 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2376>`__: Update Dependencies for Python3.10


* `#2437 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2437>`__: Cleanup `simple_functions.py`
   - Removed `fdiv` as in all cases where it was used, it was just doing the same thing as numpy array division.
   - Replaced old implementation of the choose function with scipy's implementation
   - Use `lru_cache` (least recently used cache) for caching the choose function. Since it's only used for beziers, only 2 choose k and 3 choose k will be used, hence a size of 10 should be enough.
   - Removed `clip_in_place` in favor of `np.clip`
   - Removed one use of `clip_in_place` that wasn't actually doing anything

* `#2439 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2439>`__: Removed twitter template from scripts


Unclassified changes
--------------------

* `#2517 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2517>`__: Added guide on profiling and improving performance


* `#2518 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2518>`__: Added import lines to examples in `deprecation` docs
   Updated an example in `deprecation` docs. Added the line `from ..utils.deprecation import deprecated` to a basic usage example.

* `#2499 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2499>`__: Make help more descriptive


* `#2495 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2495>`__: Updated minimal latex installation instructions


* `#2500 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2500>`__: Add note about contributions during refactor period


* `#2508 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2508>`__: Improve performance for :meth:`~become`
   - Added a boolean parameter, `skip_point_alignment` to the `align_data` method. When True, the expensive point alignment method is not called.
   - Added documentation for the `align_data` method.
   - Added three tests testing the `become` method.

* `#2485 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2485>`__: Fix minor typing mistakes in docs


* `#2475 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2475>`__: Remove setuptools dependency


* `#2472 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2472>`__: Remove unnecessary comment in `simple_functions.py`


* `#2468 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2468>`__: Hide more private methods from the docs.


* `#2466 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2466>`__: Fixed a typo in the documentation for plugins


* `#2464 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/2464>`__: Bump pillow from 8.4.0 to 9.0.0
