******
v0.7.0
******

:Date: June 01, 2021

Contributors
============

A total of 45 people contributed to this
release. People with a '+' by their names authored a patch for the first
time.

* André +
* Anton Ballmaier
* Benjamin Hackl
* Clar Fon
* Darylgolden
* Devin Neal
* Hugues Devimeux
* Iced-Tea3 +
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Jason Villanueva
* Jerónimo Squartini +
* KingWampy
* Laith Bahodi
* Max Stoumen +
* Mohammad Al-Fetyani
* Naveen M K
* NeoPlato
* Newell Jensen
* Nikhil Garuda
* Nikhil Sharma +
* PaulCMurdoch +
* Philipp Imhof
* Raghav Goel
* Robert West +
* Ryan McCauley +
* Skaft +
* SwiddisZwei +
* e4coder +
* friedkeenan
* malte-v +
* ralphieraccoon
* sparshg


The patches included in this release have been reviewed by
the following contributors.

* Aathish Sivasubrahmanian
* Abhijith Muthyala
* Anton Ballmaier
* Aron
* Benjamin Hackl
* Darylgolden
* Devin Neal
* GameDungeon
* Hugues Devimeux
* Iced-Tea3
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Jason Villanueva
* Jerónimo Squartini
* KingWampy
* Laith Bahodi
* Mark Miller
* Mohammad Al-Fetyani
* Naveen M K
* Nikhil Garuda
* Oliver
* Philipp Imhof
* Raghav Goel
* Ricky Chon
* Ryan McCauley
* Skaft
* SwiddisZwei
* e4coder
* friedkeenan
* ralphieraccoon
* sparshg

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 87 pull requests were merged for this release.

Breaking changes
----------------

* `#1521 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1521>`__: Improve :class:`~.Animation` docs
   - Improve documentation of the :class:`~.Animation` class.
   - Unify the signature of ``get_all_mobjects``. Now it always returns a sequence of :class:`Mobjects <.Mobject>`. This breaks using  ``FadeTransform.get_all_mobjects`` as ``Group``.

* `#1470 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1470>`__: Drop support for Python 3.6
   Manim won't work on Python 3.6 anymore.

Highlights
----------

* `#1447 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1447>`__: Added :class:`~.PolarPlane` for polar coordinates.


* `#1490 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1490>`__: Added :class:`~.Polygram`, rework the polygon inheritance tree, and add :class:`~.Star`
   - Add :class:`~.Polygram`, a generalized :class:`~.Polygon` that allows for disconnected sets of edges.
   - Make :class:`~.Polygon` inherit from :class:`~.Polygram`.
   - Add :func:`~.regular_vertices`
   - Add :class:`~.RegularPolygram`.
   - Make :class:`~.RegularPolygon` inherit from :class:`~.RegularPolygram`.
   - Add :class:`~.Star`.

* `#1462 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1462>`__: OpenGL: Added :class:`~.Shader`, :class:`~.Mesh`, and :class:`~.FullScreenQuad`
   Add Shader and Mesh objects

* `#1418 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1418>`__: Added project management commands
   - ``manim init`` - quickly sets up default files for a manim project.
   - ``manim new project`` - lets the user set project settings. It also creates the project inside a new folder of name <project_name>
   - ``manim new scene`` - used to quickly insert new scenes into files. If ``file name`` is not provided ``main.py`` is used as default.

Deprecated classes and functions
--------------------------------

* `#1598 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1598>`__: Update examples to use :class:`~.Axes` and deprecate :class:`~.GraphScene`
   :class:`~.GraphScene` has been deprecated and its functionality has been shifted to :class:`~.Axes`. See the updated example gallery for sample usage.

* `#1454 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1454>`__: Fading module enhancements
   Moved functionality of all Fading classes to :class:`~.FadeIn` and :class:`~.FadeOut`. All other fading classes have been deprecated.

* `#1375 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1375>`__: Deleted the deprecated ``ShowCreation`` in favor of :class:`~.Create`


New features
------------

* `#1566 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1566>`__: Added the ability to add gridlines to a :class:`~.Rectangle`


* `#1548 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1548>`__: Added :class:`~.ArcBrace`, a subclass of :class:`~.Brace`.


* `#1559 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1559>`__: Update VGroup to support item assignment (#1530)
   Support indexed item-assignment for VGroup

* `#1518 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1518>`__: Allow fading multiple Mobjects in one Animation  


* `#1422 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1422>`__: Added :func:`~.override_animation` decorator


* `#1504 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1504>`__: Color module enhancements
   - Replaced ``BLUE_E`` with what was previously ``DARK_BLUE`` and removed ``DARK_BLUE``
   - Added alias ``LIGHTER_GRAY`` for ``GRAY_A``
   - Added ``PURE_RED``, ``PURE_BLUE`` and renamed ``GREEN_SCREEN`` to ``PURE_GREEN``
   - All gray colors are now also available using British spelling (including ``GREY_BROWN``)
   - Replaced color example in the docs. It can now be used as a quick reference for all color names.

* `#1272 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1272>`__: Implement metaclass approach in geometry module to make mobjects compatible with cairo and opengl rendering


* `#1404 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1404>`__: Added two deprecation decorators
   Added two function decorators ``deprecated`` and ``deprecated_params`` as a consistent way of deprecating code.

Enhancements
------------

* `#1572 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1572>`__: OpenGL compatibility via metaclass: :class:`~.TracedPath`, :class:`~.ParametricFunction`, :class:`~.Brace`, :class:`~.VGroup`


* `#1472 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1472>`__: Porting methods from :class:`~.GraphScene` to :class:`~.CoordinateSystem`


* `#1589 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1589>`__: OpenGL compatibility via metaclass: :class:`~.ValueTracker`


* `#1564 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1564>`__: Add extra notes for TeX compilation errors
   Add hint to use custom ``TexTemplate`` on TeX compilation errors

* `#1584 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1584>`__: Added a check for ``0`` in :meth:`~.round_corners`


* `#1586 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1586>`__: Add OpenGLMobject support to all ``isinstance`` occurrences
   This PR increases the support for OpenGL in the remaining animation classes and in other places where appropriate.

* `#1577 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1577>`__: Added new metaclass ConvertToOpenGL (replacing MetaVMobject), restore IntelliSense


* `#1562 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1562>`__: Improved VectorField's Nudge Accuracy Per Step
   Implemented the Runge-Kutta algorithm in VectorField's nudge function. This increases the accuracy as an object moves along a vector field. This also increases efficiency as the nudge function requires less loops to achieve accuracy than the previous implementation.

* `#1480 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1480>`__: Add logging info to tex errors


* `#1567 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1567>`__: Compatibility Fixes with ManimPango v0.3.0
   - ManimPango v0.3.0+ is required for Manim now. 
   - Show errors from Pango when Markup isn't correct

* `#1512 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1512>`__: OpenGL compatibility via metaclass: graph


* `#1511 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1511>`__: OpenGL compatibility via metaclass: svg_mobject, text_mobject, tex_mobject


* `#1502 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1502>`__: Added ``center`` parameter to :class:`~.Sphere` and ``point`` parameter to :class:`~.Dot3D`


* `#1486 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1486>`__: Update of ``rate_functions``
   Changed the picture for the non standard rate functions.

* `#1495 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1495>`__: Ported value_tracker to OpenGL


* `#1382 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1382>`__: Expand documentation, testing, and functionality of ValueTrackers; remove ExponentialValueTracker
   Added more documentation and inline operators to ValueTracker and ComplexValueTracker. Brought coverage for value_tracker.py to 100%. Removed ExponentialValueTracker.

* `#1475 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1475>`__: Add SVG elliptical arc support


Fixed bugs
----------

* `#1574 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1574>`__: Fixed error when processing SVG with omitted elliptical arc command


* `#1596 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1596>`__: Fix indexing for non-whitespace tex arg separator
   Fixes #1568

   Fix issue when setting the arg_separator of a Tex object as a non-whitespace character(s). The method `break_up_by_substrings(self)` was not accounting for the separator when setting the index.

* `#1588 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1588>`__: Fixed multiple animations being saved in the same file


* `#1571 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1571>`__: Fix tests after introducing parallelization


* `#1545 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1545>`__: Fix outdated parameters for :class:`LinearTransformationScene` and add an example + typing.


* `#1513 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1513>`__: Fixed rotation of gradients while rotating a VMobject
   - Fixed the direction of gradient which remained the same while rotating VMobjects
   - Added ``rotate_sheen_direction()`` method in VMobject

* `#1570 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1570>`__: Output errors to stderr


* `#1560 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1560>`__: Declare *.npz *.wav *.png as binary in .gitattributes


* `#1211 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1211>`__: Refactored scene caching and fixed issue when a different hash was produced when copying a mobject in the scene 
   Refactored internal scene-caching mechanism and fixed bug when an inconsistent hash was produced when copying a mobject.

* `#1527 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1527>`__: Improved handling of substring isolation within sqrt, and fixed a bug with transform_mismatch for the matching shape transforms


* `#1526 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1526>`__: Fix fading


* `#1523 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1523>`__: Fix multiple FadeIn / Out only working on VMobjects


Documentation-related changes
-----------------------------

* `#1599 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1599>`__: Added example for :class:`~.Annulus`


* `#1415 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1415>`__: New example for gallery and some docs refinements


* `#1509 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1509>`__: Copyedited Documentation
   Added a link to Manim Community GitHub page in ``for_dev.rst``.
   Fixed :meth:`~.Mobject.get_start`  and added ``roll`` link in ``building_blocks-rst``
   Added language to code blocks in ``configuration.rst``

* `#1384 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1384>`__: Added typings to space_ops.py
   Added Typehints to most of the functions

* `#1500 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1500>`__: Example for :meth:`~.apply_complex_function`


* `#1551 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1551>`__: Fixed the typo for Admonitions


* `#1550 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1550>`__: Restructuring of Contribution Section


* `#1541 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1541>`__: Fixing broken links and other minor doc things


* `#1516 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1516>`__: Update docs to use ``t_range`` instead of ``t_min`` and ``t_max`` in :class:`~.ParametricFunction`


* `#1508 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1508>`__: Update troubleshooting docs


* `#1485 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1485>`__: Added :class:`~.Title` example for the docs


* `#1439 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1439>`__: Cleaning ``Sequence`` typehints


* `#1440 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1440>`__: Added Scoop installation docs (Windows)


* `#1452 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1452>`__: Refine typehints at :class:`~.Angle`


* `#1458 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1458>`__: Refine docs of :class:`~.Text` ( add ``disable_ligatures=True`` for t2c)


* `#1449 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1449>`__: Added :class:`~.PointCloudDot` example


* `#1473 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1473>`__: Added easy example for :meth:`~.arrange_in_grid`


* `#1402 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1402>`__: Added typestring parser checker


* `#1451 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1451>`__: Reduce complexity of AngleExample


* `#1441 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1441>`__: Add inheritance diagrams to reference page
   Added inheritance diagrams to the reference page as a quick navigation method.

* `#1457 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1457>`__: Fixing broken doc links


* `#1445 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1445>`__: Remove $ from tutorial commands


Changes concerning the testing system
-------------------------------------

* `#1556 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1556>`__: Try pytest-xdist for parallelization in tests


Changes to our development infrastructure
-----------------------------------------

* `#1505 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1505>`__: Add docs reference to PR template
   Added documentation link to the Pull Request Template.

* `#1499 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1499>`__: Updated Discord links in the docs to point towards a standardized redirect


* `#1461 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1461>`__: Build the docs - Logging 


* `#1481 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1481>`__: pyproject.toml: poetry_core -> poetry-core


* `#1477 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1477>`__: Update RDT sphinx package to version 3.5.3


* `#1460 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1460>`__: Create CONTRIBUTING.md


* `#1453 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1453>`__: manim_directive: fix image links in docs - Windows
   Use POSIX path on Windows to link images so documentation can build locally.

Code quality improvements and similar refactors
-----------------------------------------------

* `#1465 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1465>`__: Added typings and description to some functions in :mod:`~.coordinate_systems`.


* `#1552 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1552>`__: Removed unwanted parameters in geometry
   Removed ``anchors_span_full_range``, ``close_new_points``, ``anchors_span_full_range``, ``preserve_tip_size_when_scaling``, ``mark_paths_closed`` and ``close_new_points``

* `#1597 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1597>`__: Removed hilite_me and insert_line_numbers_in_html from global name space


* `#1535 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1535>`__: Update dependencies and fix tests


* `#1544 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1544>`__: Adding spell checker as a pre-commit hook


* `#1542 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1542>`__: Swapping a pango markup link in docs


* `#1531 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1531>`__: Don't use deprecated methods in deprecation.py


* `#1492 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1492>`__: Remove stray print statements introduced in #1404


* `#1471 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1471>`__: Fix Some Warnings from lgtm


Changes that needed to be reverted again
----------------------------------------

* `#1606 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1606>`__: Bring back ``DARK_BLUE``


New releases
------------

* `#1601 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1601>`__: Preparation for v0.7.0: added changelog and bumped version number


