******
v0.9.0
******

:Date: August 01, 2021

Contributors
============

A total of 35 people contributed to this
release. People with a '+' by their names authored a patch for the first
time.

* Alex Lembcke
* Benjamin Hackl
* Darylgolden
* Devin Neal
* Harivinay +
* Hugues Devimeux
* Jared Hughes +
* Jason Villanueva
* Kadatatlu Kishore +
* LED Me Explain +
* Laith Bahodi
* Mohammad Al-Fetyani
* Noam Zaks
* Oliver
* PaulCMurdoch
* Raghav Prabhakar +
* Ryan McCauley
* Suhail Sherif +
* Taektiek +
* Udeshya Dhungana +
* UraniumCronorum +
* Vinh H. Pham (Vincent) +
* ccn +
* icedcoffeeee +
* sahilmakhijani +
* sparshg


The patches included in this release have been reviewed by
the following contributors.

* Abhijith Muthyala
* Alex Lembcke
* Benjamin Hackl
* Darylgolden
* Devin Neal
* Harivinay
* Hugues Devimeux
* Jan-Hendrik Müller
* Jason Villanueva
* KingWampy
* Laith Bahodi
* Lino
* Mohammad Al-Fetyani
* Oliver
* Raghav Goel
* Suhail Sherif
* icedcoffeeee
* sahilmakhijani
* sparshg

Pull requests merged
====================

A total of 50 pull requests were merged for this release.

Deprecated classes and functions
--------------------------------

* `#1848 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1848>`__: Deprecated parameters for :class:`~.DashedLine` and :class:`~.DashedVMobject`
   - ``dash_spacing`` is an unused parameter
   - ``positive_space_ratio`` has been replaced with the shorter name ``dashed_ratio``

* `#1773 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1773>`__: Remove all classes and functions that were deprecated until `v0.7.0` and `v0.8.0`


New features
------------

* `#1677 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1677>`__: New Mobject: Added :class:`~.Tabular`
   New Mobject that allows displaying multiple styles of tables.

* `#1719 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1719>`__: Added :class:`~.Broadcast` animation.


* `#1765 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1765>`__: Added a static method to :class:`~.Circle` to allow it to be defined by three points
   - Added a static method to :class:`~.Circle` to allow it to be defined by three points
   - Added a new :func:`~.perpendicular_bisector` function in `space_ops.py`

* `#1686 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1686>`__: Added `.set_fill_by_value()` to :class:`~.ParametricSurface`
   Added the method `.set_fill_by_value()` to :class:`~ParametricSurface` enabling a color gradient to be applied to parametric surfaces, including the ability to define at which points the colors should be centered.

Enhancements
------------

* `#1833 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1833>`__: Opengl compatibility for :class:`~.VDict`, :class:`~.Axes.get_line_graph` and :class:`~.FocusOn`.


* `#1760 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1760>`__: Add `window_size` flag.
   Added ``window_size`` flag to manually adjust the size of the OpenGL window. Accepts a tuple in the form: ``x,y``.

* `#1823 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1823>`__: DashedVMobject reworked
   Rewritten the logic to generate dashes
   `positive_space_ratio` renamed to `dashed_ratio`
   `dash_spacing` parameter removed from `DashedLine`

* `#1808 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1808>`__: OpenGL renderer updates
   Improvements to OpenGL infrastructure

* `#1802 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1802>`__: Refactored graphical unit testing system, and implemented multi frames tests.
   Refactored graphical unit testing system, and implemented multi frames tests.

* `#1787 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1787>`__: Made :class:`~.DecimalNumber` apply color to the ellipsis
   Made color apply to the dots when `show_ellipsis` is set to true in `DecimalNumber`

* `#1775 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1775>`__: Let :class:`~.Create` work on :class:`~.OpenGLSurface`


* `#1757 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1757>`__: Added warning when there is a large number of items to hash.
   Added warning when there are many items to hash.

* `#1774 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1774>`__: Add the ``reverse`` parameter to :class:`~.Write`


Fixed bugs
----------

* `#1722 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1722>`__: Fixing `remover=True` for :class:`~.AnimationGroup`


* `#1844 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1844>`__: Fix oversized code window with opengl renderer
   Fixed oversized Code window when using the opengl renderer

* `#1821 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1821>`__: Fixed issues concerning frame_center in ThreeDScene
   - Changing frame_center in a ThreeDScene now actually changes the camera position.
   - An animation with only frame_center animated will now be rendered properly.
   - A black dot is not created at the origin once frame_center is animated.

* `#1826 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1826>`__: Fix bar chart scaling
   Fix bug with `change_bar_values` in :class:`~.BarChart`

* `#1839 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1839>`__: Allow passing arguments to `.animate` with the OpenGL renderer


* `#1791 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1791>`__: fix: set_z_index now sets all submobjects' z_index value


* `#1817 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1817>`__: Remove pillow version requirement


* `#1792 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1792>`__: Fix png format issue when using dry run
   Fixed bug that caused dry runs to fail when using the png format

* `#1790 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1790>`__: Fix import from `manimlib` 
   Made the import local and removed all `manimlib` comments.

* `#1782 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1782>`__: Fix :class:`~.Tex` not working properly with OpenGL
   Utilized the `~.set_submobjects` function for both renderer in the `~.break_up_by_substrings` function.

* `#1783 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1783>`__: Fix :meth:`~OpenGLMobject.shuffle` function and add :meth:`~.invert` to OpenGL
   Fixes #1777

* `#1786 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1786>`__: Fix :class:`~.DecimalNumber` not working properly when the number of digits changes
   Fixes #1761

* `#1763 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1763>`__: Fix not being able to set some CLI flags in the configuration file
   Changed the default value of all `manim render` flags to None, which basically means consider the default value from the config file unless specified otherwise in the CLI.

* `#1776 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1776>`__: fix: `get_riemann_rectangles` now uses the graphs range instead of the axes range


* `#1770 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1770>`__: Rewrite put_start_and_end_on for :class:`~.OpenGLMobject` to work correctly in 3D
   * Rewrite `put_start_and_end_on` for :class:`~.OpenGLMobject` so that they work in 3D.
   * Remove the conditional in `angle_between_vectors` so that the same function is used regardless of the renderer, since the normal code also works for OpenGL, and generalizes its use into 3D.

* `#1736 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1736>`__: Fix LinearTransformationScene crashing on second animation
   Fixed LinearTransformationScene crashing on multiple animations

Documentation-related changes
-----------------------------

* `#1739 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1739>`__: Custom Animation Docs
   Add Custom Animation section in docs building blocks page

* `#1835 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1835>`__: Updated docs for the test refactor (Tests PR 2/3)
   Updated tests docs.

* `#1845 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1845>`__: Fixed example in gallery to allow a two-dimensional mean


* `#1842 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1842>`__: Update documentation for `developer installation` in `for_dev.rst`


* `#1829 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1829>`__: Switch the order of Scoop and Choco in the docs for the Windows Installation


* `#1827 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1827>`__: Prevented old versions of documentation from showing in search results


* `#1819 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1819>`__: Update misleading -h flag in document
   Remove non-existing `-h` flag of `manim`, `manim config`, `manim render`

* `#1813 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1813>`__: remove unused variables from tutorial


* `#1815 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1815>`__: Added codespell in contribution docs.
   Fixes #1613.

* `#1778 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1778>`__: Improve sidebar structure of reference manual


* `#1749 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1749>`__: Added documentation for :meth:`~.VMobject.set_fill`


* `#1743 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1743>`__: Edited the developer installation instructions to add in missing context about repository cloning


* `#1706 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1706>`__: Rework example for :class:`~.Variable`


Changes concerning the testing system
-------------------------------------

* `#1836 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1836>`__: Converted all the graphical tests to the new syntax (Tests PR 3/3).
   Converted all the graphical tests to the new syntax.

Changes to our development infrastructure
-----------------------------------------

* `#1830 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1830>`__: Refactor the PR Template to be more concise about the documentation reference.


Code quality improvements and similar refactors
-----------------------------------------------

* `#1806 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1806>`__: Fixed spelling mistake


* `#1745 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1745>`__: Updated citation to Manim 0.9.0
   Updated the citation in the README to Manim 0.9.0.

Unclassified changes
--------------------

* `#1727 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1727>`__: Fix some hot reload issues and compatibility with IDEs
   Fixes #1726

   - Fixed interactive embed issue where it would fail when running on non-tty terminals
   - Fixed issue where file observer would error after the second run as the first observer was not closed

* `#1731 <https://github.com/ManimCommunity/manim/pull/1731>`__: Changed uv min max to uv range instead for consistency
   Since most of the library utilizes a range parameter rather than the min max notation, i thought it'd be better to change these too.

